The source code for JSPWiki is all Apache 2.0-licensed. The Apache Software Foundation owns all rights source code, configuration files, and related intellectual property. The only exception to this are bundled third-party libraries, whose rights remain those of their respective owners.

JSPWiki originated outside Apache as an independent project led by Janne Jalkanen. After admission into the Incubator program, the project team took the following steps to ensure that the old JSPWiki codebase was cleansed of potential IP issues and that all IP rights were assigned to Apache. The project team:

1 Identified the authors of all code in the JSPWiki codebase
2 Secured licensing agreements from every author
3 Re-wrote or removed any code associated with an author who could or would not submit a licensing agreement
4 Verified that the licensing agreements associated with bundled third-party JARs were Apache-compatible
5 Removed or replaced third-party resources for which licenses were not Apache-compatible

Details for the process the team used for each step follows.

1. Idenfication of all authors of JSPWiki code

In August 2007, Janne Jalkanen identified all authors, as designated by @author tags in the code. The authors include 6 core developers: Janne Jalkanen, Andrew Jaquith, Erik Bunn, Murray Altheim, Dirk Frederickx and Christophe Sauer. In addition, analysis identified 16 other developers who had contributed code. The Unix grep command was used to find authors.

The complete list of contributors are: Kees Kuip, John Volkar, Alain Ravet, Chuck Smith, Henning Schmiedehausen, Ken Liu, Sebastian Baltes, Hanno Eichelberger, Arent-Jan Banck, David Au, Scott Hurlbert, Dan Frankowski, Torsten Hildebrandt, Steffen Schramm, Janne Jalkanen, Murray Altheim, Christoph Sauer, Erik Bunn, BaseN corporation, Juanpablo Santos Rodriguez, Andrew Jaquith, and Dirk Frederickx.

2. Secured licensing agreements from every author

All of the authors identified in Step 1 were asked to submit an Individual Contributor License Agreement (ICLA) or a Software Grant (SG) agreement, depending on whether they wished to stay involved with the project. This process began in August 2007. As of 9 May 2009, ICLAs or SGs had been secured from 21 of the 22 authors. The one developer that did not submit a CLA was Alain Ravet. All other authors submitted CLAs or SGs; their status can be verified at http://people.apache.org/~jim/committers.html.

3. Re-wrote or removed any code associated with an author who could or would not submit a licensing agreement

As noted, only one author of code in the JSPWiki code based did not submit a CLA. Alain Ravet was the author of a single class, IndexPlugin. Janne Jalkanen re-wrote this class from scratch and checked it in 14 June 2008 (see JIRA issue JSPWIKI-246). 

4. Verified that the licensing agreements associated with 3rd party resources were Apache-compatible

JSPWiki uses 46 third-party JARs, several scripts and a few third-party icons. These works are licensed into two categories: (A) Apache-authorized licenses licenses; (B) Reciprocal licenses. JSPWiki uses no excluded licenses such as GPL and LGPL, per Apache's policy as described at http://www.apache.org/legal/3party.html.

Category A licenses are for those libraries and resources that are Apache-authorized, including Apache 2.0 and MIT licenses. In the list of JARs below, the license requirements of all Apache-licensed JARs and resources are fufilled by the LICENSE document in the top-level directory.

Category B licenses may only be included in within an Apache product if the inclusion is appropriately labeled: CDDL 1.0, CPL 1.0, EPL 1.0, IPL 1.0, MPL 1.0, MPL 1.1, SPL 1.0. To comply with the licensing terms for these works, license files (prefixed LICENSE.) were added to the doc/ top-level project directory.

The Apache 2.0 license for JSPWiki and the full list of third-party software used is contained in the top-level LICENSE file. This file also lists references to appropriate third-party licenses in addition than the Apache 2.0 license.

5. Removed or replaced third-party resources for which licenses were not Apache-compatible

When third-party dependencies and licenses were being analyzed, the JSPWiki development team identified several non-compatible JARs which were replaced or removed. These included:
- jug-lgpl.jar, an LGPL UUID generator. This was removed in favor of a JDK-based solution.
- WikiWizard.jar, a graphical wiki text editor. This feature was removed and not replaced.
- MultiPartRequest.jar, an LGPL-licensed multi-party MIME request parser from Jason Pell. This was replaced by Apache commons-fileupload-1.2.1.jar.

One included JavaScript resource, posteditor.js, contains a single reference in its header to a "MIT-style license." Because this is not exactly an MIT license, the posteditor.js script will be re-written prior to the alpha release.

